what is effective activism in my opinion
effective activism has absolutely
nothing to do with fame
it has especially little to do with
being world famous as opposed to locally
famous or locally known for what you've
done the examples we use in this respect
are significant I'm gonna give you what
I consider a textbook example of
effective activism that's maybe
shockingly unfamiliar some of my viewers
because the discourse surrounding these
questions has slid so far off the rails
group of people put money together in a
hat maybe not even asking for donations
maybe just their own money those five or
ten people they start taking samples of
water from a river and then send those
samples to be tested in a laboratory you
know what comes next the samples are
evidence the evidence can be used in a
court of law the evidence can be used
within the chambers of government
lobbying for change and the analysis the
samples can be directly reported to the
press in a press conference and that can
get results now you've got proof of
exactly which companies are polluting
the river with exactly which chemicals
exactly which laws are being broken or
which guidelines for maximum limits on
pollution are being exceeded etc why is
that such a powerful method of activism
well for one thing you're working in
concert with the law not against it in
principle you're calling for laws that
exist to be enforced or at least you're
calling for ideals that the government
already agrees with to be lived up to
now if you do this as many many people
have done this is not one example
probably I don't know if you care about
ecology you'll probably know about
examples of this from more than one
country around the world this is a
textbook pattern of effective activism
this doesn't result in anyone becoming
famous what it results in our real-world
outcomes what it results in are changes
that really matter and you know if we
care about outcomes there can be no
doubt that if we were going to look at
who are the most effective advocates for
ecology there'll be the ones that call
for things that local governments
already supported whether as ideals or
in specific laws in the book I remember
being at a Green Party event in Toronto
Canada and meeting with a bunch of
people who at the time considered their
cause completely hopeless in trying to
get ecological change in Sydney Nova
Scotia Sydney Nova Scotia was on the
list of the world's most toxic sites it
was on the list of the world's greatest
ecological disasters and by most
reckonings there's more than one way to
measure a disaster but by most
reckonings it was considered the worst
ecological disaster in the world outside
of the Soviet Union at that time so
Union had a couple of real toxic sites
but this was the worst in a non Soviet
country and at that time this is
probably more than 10 years ago all the
activists involved thought it was
hopeless thought the government was
never gonna do anything they were
raising public awareness they were
taking samples of the soil and getting
tests they were taking samples of
people's blood to you know to prove that
there were impacts on human health they
were lobbying for change and guess what
they got that change ultimately their
activism led to a multi-million dollar
budget on the part of the government can
be huge basically a bottomless budget to
actually solve the problem and now it's
happened and now at least part of that
former toxic dump site is a very
pleasant park where it's safe for people
to walk on the grass and play
transformation is extreme nobody
involved in that project has even become
as famous as durianrider or freely
because the point was real activism the
point was real outcomes whether it's
water samples or
I saw a video today that was recorded
about two days ago by Duran Ryder I say
today this is actually being recorded at
4:00 a.m. this is as exhausted as I get
or what my face looks like I really have
not slept but I care about the issue so
I'm recording this video now and I like
to thank that YouTube isn't a beauty
contest at least not my corner or the
game um about two days ago I made a
video that seems almost like a perfect
180 degrees opposite a video of during
Ryder's that went up at about the same
time I'll post the link below but when I
made my video I hadn't seen what turn
rather had to say I'm talking about my
passion versus organization video which
is 26 minutes long it's quite long I'm
shocked you know I gave during Ryder a
lot more credit than he deserved I
really thought he viewed his own
situation in terms of activism with more
humility with more realism and I thought
he had more respect for real activists
who make a real difference in the world
and the video he's uploaded that I'm
responding to here and I'll post the
link it shows his complete contempt for
and his complete derision for real world
activism and what everyone call it
political activism legal activism
outcome oriented activism activism where
the effectiveness can be measured in
real results and by contrast his
endorsement for just coming on YouTube
and endorsing a lifestyle is is surreal
and it's contemptuous and really it's a
very bad influence on anyone who listens
to
I've gotta say for me it's interesting I
didn't think I could be shocked but I
really gave that guy more credit than he
deserves and you know he's a grown man
he gives his age in the same video as 39
years old she also didn't know and you
know on the one hand everything he's
saying is underpinned by this belief
that fame is activism and the main
outcome of activism should be and must
be Fame as I said at the start of this
video to me that is a hundred percent
wrong and on the other hand I mean in
terms of the peculiar vanity of what he
does and what he's endorsing because it
there's a lot of vanity it's a lot of
lifestyle activism and so on it's a lot
about glorifying the body and certain
types of pastimes and supports apart
from the fact that he has so much
disrespect for political activists I
wonder why he's not aware of the issue
of being respected himself I spoke to a
number of different government officials
in the last couple of days I spoke to
two guys who basically are like Canada's
equivalent to the CIA and not exactly
right they're researchers for military
intelligence not that far off though and
the level of respect they showed me
after sitting down and talking to me for
about five minutes well came to surprise
there's no reason I mean I guess they
respect me because I seemed like I knew
what I was talking about and I have a
certain background in politics and I
have a certain disciplined and precise
way of speaking they got the impression
right away that I was to be taken
seriously I spoke to another government
official government statistics bureau
and almost immediately she apologized to
me that she could not offer me a job
higher up above
supervisor in the Canadian government
and it really seems hilarious to because
she had only talked to me for a few
seconds she really knew nothing about me
like my research background my
experience in him and I wasn't dressed
well I wasn't wearing expensive clothes
I wasn't wearing a suit and I don't
think I looked that respectable do you
wanna see what I mean take a look for
yourself
I wouldn't be surprised if people had
pretty negative assumptions about me
based on my based on my appearance but
it was kind of a shocking reminder of
how respectable have become in my old
age in the eyes of authority figures
because all three of those people really
were authority figures I was speaking to
I can't say that something I planned for
can say it's like I valued in my life
but by contrast I don't know durianrider
he is high on his own Fame and he can
say that he's earned that and he's not
without justification it takes some
pride in what he's done and so on um but
I don't think he could get those
meetings at City Hall I don't think he'd
be taken seriously by people in
positions of authority I don't think he
could put together a team of people and
test the water in a river and present
that analysis to a press conference or
to a board meeting or to some kind of
legal chamber but I wish you would I
wish you would try I wish he would get
out of the dead entity or trip he's on
and that he's inviting everyone else to
get involved with and care about
real-world outcomes we all put political
activism and I wish he would set a
positive example for others to emulate
because I've got to say this video
changes my opinion of them I now really
regard him as a completely negative
example
and as someone who has no respect for no
appreciation for what vegan activism is
what ecologic activism is and as someone
who just represents a kind of dangerous
distraction from the real challenge that
is facing my generation in the 21st
century this is my generation struggle
not my parents not my grandparents not
my children this is the struggle that
has to happen
Now or Never
and there's real emotional weight in
that for me you don't get another river
you don't get another atmosphere you
don't get another shot at it now